Women In Tech Visual Rhetoric  

For my visual rhetoric project, I decided to create a visual argument about women in STEM and more specifically technology. There is a stigma that technology is for men and it has become very male-dominated. The big names that everyone knows in the technology world are men like, Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs etc. While these men have made some very significant contributions to modern technology some of the earliest innovations have been made my women. I wanted to draw attention to these women to show that women are important in STEM and it does not need to be male dominated. I chose images of some of the most influential women in tech and arranged them in a pyramid type stance. I want to make the arrangement of the women very powerful. I started with Grace Hopper in the center, with Katherine Johnson and Elizabeth next to her and Mary Allen Wilkes and Annie Easley on the outside. I chose to arrange the women in age order with the oldest in the center. The meaning behind this is that each generation of women that makes innovations helps the next. I also added some text to help the viewer see the message more easily and to make it more powerful. I used varying transparencies to draw attention to the center statement. I put “The Queen of Code” in the center because it is the nickname that was given to Grace Hopper a pioneer in computer programming. I chose a black background with white text to create negative and positive space and bring the viewers attention to the text as well as the photographs below it. I also used some new tools in Gimp to make the photos look better in this arrangement. I used the smudge tool to make the photos blend better and use the scale layer tool in order to make the women’s faces around the same size. Overall, I think it displays the rhetoric in a very clear but interesting way with the familiarity of the Beyoncé quote “Who run the world” combined with the less familiar faces of historical women in tech.
