WomenInTech.md, before:

Women In Tech Visual Rhetoric  

For my project I decided to make my argument about women in technology. There are a lot of famous men that are known  
in the field of technology such as Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs etc. However, many very influential people  
in the evolution of technology have been female. In this rhetoric I wanted to draw attention to these very influential  
women to recognize them as well as let people especially young women see that women are highly capable in the technology   
field as it has become very male dominated and stereotypes have formed. In this preview (WomenInTech.png) I chose images  
of some of the most influential women in tech and arranged them in a pyramid type stance. I want to make the arrangement  
of the women very powerful. Right now, I arranged them somewhat randomly but I think I may rearrange it, so the center   
focus is on the oldest women I have chosen, to represent that each generation of technologist have led to the next.   
I also would like to choose someone else to put on the left I think visually having such a recent technologist throws   
off the rhetoric and would prefer to stick to historical women. There are some women who were so influential so early on  
that the only photos are black and white or there aren’t even photos only paintings. I would like to stick to color   
photos for now. I also had some issues finding another historical woman who’s photo I could use ethically but I am going  
to keep looking for a different picture. Another Idea I have is to add some phrases that tell more about the women such  
as “queen of code” or “first women to…” and include some of their accomplishments. I think that upon first look people   
probably won’t recognize these women, however they should. In order to help the viewer understand the message I think   
some phrases will help them to see the argument.

Commit message:

Update Women in Tech with the Draft explanation

WomenInTech.md, after:

Women In Tech Visual Rhetoric  

For my project I decided to make my argument about women in technology. There are a lot of famous men that are known in the field of technology such as Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs etc. However, many very influential people in the evolution of technology have been female. In this rhetoric I wanted to draw attention to these very influential women to recognize them as well as let people especially young women see that women are highly capable in the technology field as it has become very male dominated and stereotypes have formed. In this draft (WomenInTech.png) I chose images of some of the most influential women in tech and arranged them in a pyramid type stance. I want to make the arrangement of the women very powerful. I started with Grace Hopper in the center, with Katherine Johnson and Elizabeth next to her and Mary Allen Wilkes and Annie Easley on the outside. I chose to arrange the women in age order with the oldest in the center. The meaning behind this is that each generation of women that makes innovations helps the next. I also added some text to help the viewer see the message more easily and to make it more powerful. I used varying transparencies to draw attention to the center statement. I put “The Queen of Code” in the center because it is the nickname that was given to Grace Hopper a pioneer in computer programming. I chose a black background with white text to create negative and positive space and bring the viewers attention to the text as well as the photographs below it. I also used some new tools in Gimp to make the photos look better in this arrangement. I used the smudge tool to make the photos blend better and use the scale layer tool in order to make the women’s faces around the same size. Overall, I think it displays the rhetoric in a very clear but interesting way with the familiarity of the Beyoncé quote “Who run the world” combined with the less familiar faces of historical women in tech.
